---
title: 400. Pre-rendering
date created: Thursday, November 3rd 2022, 1:19:51 pm
date modified: Thursday, December 8th 2022, 3:50:27 pm
---

# 400. Pre-rendering

## What and Why Pre-rendering

### What is Pre-rendering

- By default, Next.js pre-renders every page. This means that Next.js generates HTML for each page in advance, instead of having it all done by client-side JavaScript.
- Pre-rendering can result in better performance and SEO.

### Why Pre-rendering

- better performance
- SEO benefit

## Types of Rendering

- Next.js has two forms of pre-rendering: Static Generation and Server-side Rendering. The difference is in when it generates the HTML for a page.
	- Static site generation(SSG) = `getStaticProps` = data fetched at build time
		- Incremental static site regeneration(ISR)
		- Dynamic static site generation = `getStaticPaths`
	- Server side rendering = `getServerSideProps` = data fetched on each request
- Client side data fetching can be added on both type of rendering

### Static Site Generation

- [Next.js get-static-props](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/data-fetching/get-static-props)
- The HTML with all the data that makes up the content of the web page are generated in advance when you build your application.
- ==The default pre-rendering method==
- The *recommended* method to pre-render pages whenever possible.
- Can be built once and served cache version from CDN. resulting faster delivery time.
- variation of SSG
	- without data
	- with data
	- incremental static regeneration
	- dynamic parameters when fetching data

```jsx
//static generation without data
function Home(){
	return <h1>about us page</h1>
}
export default Home;
```

```jsx
//static generation with data
function Home({ users }) {
  return (
    <div>
      {users.map((user) => {
        return (
          <>
            <p>
              {user.firstName} {user.lastName}{" "}
            </p>
          </>
        );
      })}
    </div>
  );
}

export default Home;

export async function getStaticProps() {
  const response = await fetch("https://dummyjson.com/users");
  const data = await response.json();

  return {
    props: {
      users: data.users,
    },
  };
}

```

- getStaticProps
	- can write any back-end logic here,
		- ex: accessing file system, DB
	- code her wont't be shipped to browser, only back-end
		- on runs on the back-end
	- only can be used in pages,
		- not in components, client-side or anywhere else.
	- must return an object with props key
	- will run only once during build time: production
		- except on development time. it will run on every request

> getStaticProps does not have access to the incoming request (such as query parameters or HTTP headers) as it generates static HTML.

#### SSG and Link Component

- Any `Link` component in the view-port(initially or on scroll) will be prefetched by default including the corresponding data for pages using static site generation.
	- [Prefetching](Frameworks/Nextjs/900.%20More%20on%20nextjs.md#Prefetching)
- When a page with `getStaticProps` is pre-rendered at build time, nextjs renders.
	- HTML page,
	- JSON {holding the result of `getStaticProps`}
	- and the required JS chunk.
- The JSON file will be used in client-side routing through next/link or next/router.
- When you navigate to a page that's pre-rendered using `getStaticProps`, Next.js fetches
	- The JSON file which is pre-computed at build time
		- This JSON is used as a prop to create the page component client-side.

#### SSG + getStaticPaths

- If a page has Dynamic Routes and uses getStaticProps, it needs to define a list of paths to be statically generated.
- When you export a function called getStaticPaths (Static Site Generation) from a page that uses dynamic routes, Next.js will statically pre-render all the paths specified by getStaticPaths.

```js
function UserDetail({user}) {  
    //...component ui
}  
  
export default UserDetail;  

// generate pre-render for all ids
export async function getStaticPaths() {  
    const response = await fetch(`https://dummyjson.com/users`);  
    const data = await response.json();  
  
    const paths = data.users.map((user) => ({  
        params: { userid: `${user.id}` },  
    }))  
  
    return {  
        paths: paths,  
        // paths: [{params: {userid: '1'}}, {params: {userid: '2'}}],  
        fallback: false, // can also be true or 'blocking'  
    }  
}

// generate pre-render for certain ids
export async function getStaticPaths() {

    return {
        paths: [
            {params: {userid: '1'}},
            {params: {userid: '2'}},
            {params: {userid: '3'}},
        ],
        fallback: false, // can also be true or 'blocking'
    }
}
  
export async function getStaticProps(context) {  
    const {params} = context;  
    const response = await fetch(`https://dummyjson.com/users/${params.userid}`);  
    const data = await response.json();  
  
    return {  
        props: {  
            user: data,  
        },  
    };  
}
```

#### Fallback Key

- fallback key is a required value with getstaticPath
- can have the following possible values
	- false
		- any paths not returned by getStaticPaths, will result in 404 page.
		- when should you use this?
			- if you have a small number of pages pre-render with getStaticPaths
			- when new pages are not added often
			- ex: a blog site with a few articles
	- true
		- instead of return a 404 page, next.js will serve a "fallback" version of the page on the first request to such path.
			- instead in the background, Next.js will statically generate the request path HTML and JSON. This includes running `getStaticProps`.
			- subsequent request to the same path will be served from the generated pages, just like other pages pre-rendered at build time.
		- When should you use this?
			- if the app has a very large number of static pages that depend on data
			- if you want to statically generate a small subset of pages that are popular and use `fallback:true` for the rest,
				- think: e-commerce product listing
	- `blocking`
		- similar to `fallback: true`, except, nextjs will not serve a "fallback" version of the page on the first request to such path.
			- instead next.js will render that page on the server and return the generated HTML.
			- the browser waits for nextjs to respond and once the HTML and JSON are received it will load the page, with no flash or loading state.
		- When to use this?
			- basically the same reason as `fallback: true`, except when using `blocking` you wont see a loading screen
			- to support crawler, so instead of showing a loading page while pre-rendering, we would wait and show the actual page
		- Recommendation
			- Nextjs recommends using `fallback: true`
			- use `fallback: true` is you care more for user's UX, and don't have an SEO issue
			- use `fallback: 'blocking'`, is you are having an SEO issue

```jsx
//fallback true
import {useRouter} from "next/router";

function UserDetail({user}) {
    const router = useRouter();
    
    if(router.isFallback){
        return "Loading..."; //will be visible when next.js is busy pre-rendering for not-found ids
    }
    
    return <h1>{user.firstName} - {user.lastName} - {user.age}</h1>
}

export default UserDetail;

// generate pre-render for certain ids
export async function getStaticPaths() {

    return {
        paths: [
            {params: {userid: '1'}},
            {params: {userid: '2'}},
            {params: {userid: '3'}},
        ],
        fallback: true, 
    }
}
  
export async function getStaticProps(context) {  
    const {params} = context;
    const response = await fetch(`https://dummyjson.com/users/${params.userid}`);  
    const data = await response.json();  
  
    return {  
        props: {
            user: data,  
        },  
    };  
}
```

## Accessing URL Parameters

- in Next.js you can use query object to access both URL `params` and `query` objects in API, SSR, client-side except for SSG/ISR only `params` is available

```js
export async function getServerSideProps(context) {  
    const {params, query} = context;
	//given url like `/shop/{product_id}?brand=apple`
	console.log(params); //{product_id: 45}

	console.log(query);  //{product_id: 45, brand: 'apple'}
	cosnt {brand} = query;
}
```

```js 
import { useRouter } from 'next/router'

export default () => {
  const router = useRouter()
  const {post_id} = router.query;

  ...
}
```

### What if Key is Not Found

- To handle 404 pages, return not found from `getStaticProps`
	- nextjs by default will return 404 for you

```jsx
export async function getStaticProps(context) {  
    const {params} = context;
    const response = await fetch(`https://dummyjson.com/users/${params.userid}`);  
    const data = await response.json();  

	//is the result is null or undefined
	if(!data.id){
		return {
			notFound: True,
		}
	}

    return {  
        props: {
            user: data,  
        },  
    };  
}
```

### Pros and Cons of SSG

- pros
	- pre-rendered pages can be pushed to CDN, cached and served to users globally instantly.
	- better performance with SEO, as they are fast and HTML pages
- cons
	- the build time is dependent on the number of pages you have, for large pages it will take significant time,
		- ex:, you have a million users, and are using SSG for profile page
	- data might expire, if you didn't build the app recently {stale data}

### ISR {incremental Static Site regeneration}

- A solution to SSG cons.
- With ISR, Next.js allows you to update static pages after you've build your application
- you can statically generate individual pages without needing to rebuild the entire site, effectively solving the issue of dealing with stale data
- How to?
	- in the `getStaticProps` function, apart from the props key, we can specify a `revalidate` key
	- the value for re-validate is the number of seconds after which a page re-generation can occur

```jsx
export async function getStaticProps(context) {  
    const {params} = context;
    const response = await fetch(`https://dummyjson.com/users/${params.userid}`);  
    const data = await response.json();  

	//is the result is null or undefined
	if(!data.id){
		return {
			notFound: True,
		}
	}

    return {  
        props: {
            user: data,  
        },
        revalidate: 10, //10 seconds
    };  
}
```

- re-generation doesn't happen exactly after n seconds, but
	- a re-generation is initiated only if a user makes a request after the re-validation time.
	- thus pages that are not frequently access won't be re-generated.
- the re-generation can also fail and the previous cached HTML could be served till the subsequent re-generation succeed
