---
title: 103. Modules
date created: Tuesday, July 18th 2023, 10:07:05 am
date modified: Thursday, July 20th 2023, 10:37:49 am
---

# 103. Modules

## Modules

- [Modules | NestJS - A progressive Node.js framework](https://docs.nestjs.com/modules)
- Modules are a fundamental building block in Nest.js.
	- They organize the application into cohesive units, encapsulating related functionality.
	- Each module has its own context and can define providers, controllers, and other related components.
	- Modules help with code organization, reusability, and separation of concerns.

```sh
ng g module module_name
```

### Part of Nest Module

```ts
@Module({
  imports: [ConfigModule, DatabaseModule],
  controllers: [UsersController],
  providers: [UsersService],
  exports: [UsersService],
})
export class UsersModule {}
```

- imports
	- The imports property is used to import other modules that the current module depends on.
- controllers:
	- The controllers property is where you define the controllers for handling incoming HTTP requests and defining routes.
- providers:
	- The providers property is where you define the providers (services) required by the module.
- exports:
	- The exports property specifies the components (controllers, services, etc.) that are accessible to other modules.
	- It allows you to expose functionality from the current module to be used in other parts of your application.

```ts
//for instance if you want to use the above exported users-service in orders-module, you would do something like

@Module({
  imports: [UsersModule, BillingModule], <-------
  controllers: [OrdersController],
  providers: [OrdersService],
  exports: [],
})
export class OrdersModule {}

//now you can use users-service inside order-modules(controller, services...)
```

### Module Import Precedence

- the first module in an import array will be loaded first before the second module in the array.
	- this mean other modules that depends on X module, need to come after X module

```ts
imports: [
	ConfigModule,  //loads config for db to use -> loads first
	TypeOrmModule.forRoot(...)  //connects to db with above config -> loads second
]
```

> To prevent this behavior we can configure asynchronous dynamic modules…

### Dynamic Modules

- [Modules | NestJS - A progressive Node.js framework](https://docs.nestjs.com/modules#dynamic-modules)
- [Dynamic modules | NestJS - A progressive Node.js framework](https://docs.nestjs.com/fundamentals/dynamic-modules)
- dynamic modules, helps to setup a module that can have different options,
	- i.e a database module that handles a connection to a db, but has an options to set up different db types and ports

```ts
providers: [
	DBModule.register({
		name: 'postgresql',
		password: 'pass',
		port: 3360
	})
]
```
