---
date created: Tuesday, August 23rd 2022, 3:43:43 pm
date modified: Monday, January 1st 2024, 8:06:13 pm
title: 7. Docker Compose Networking
---

# 7. Docker Compose Networking

- [Source](https://docs.docker.com/compose/networking/)
- By default Compose sets up a single network for your app.
	- Each container for a service joins the `default` network and is both reachable by other containers on that network, and discover-able by them at a host-name identical to the container name.
- For example, suppose your app is in a directory called `myapp`, and your `docker-compose.yml` looks like this:

```yml
version: "3.9"
services:
  web:
    build: .
    ports:
      - "8000:8000"
  db:
    image: postgres
    ports:
      - "8001:5432"
```

- When you run `docker compose up`, the following happens:
	- A network called `myapp_default` is created.
	- A container is created using web’s configuration. It joins the network `myapp_default` under the name `web`.
	- A container is created using db’s configuration. It joins the network `myapp_default` under the name `db`.

> Each container can now look up the host-name `web` or `db` and get back the appropriate container’s IP address. For example, `web`’s application code could connect to the URL `postgres://db:5432` and start using the `Postgres` database.

## HOST_PORT Vs CONTAINER_PORT

- For db, the `HOST_PORT` is 8001 and the container port is `5432` (`postgres` default).
	- Outside applications use `HOST_PORT` and inside(inside container) applications use `CONTAINER_PORT`
- Networked service-to-service communication uses the `CONTAINER_PORT`. When `HOST_PORT` is defined, the service is accessible outside the swarm as well.
- Within the `web` container, your connection string to db would look like `postgres://db:5432`, and from the host machine, the connection string would look like `postgres://{DOCKER_IP}:8001`.

## Links

- Links allow you to define extra aliases by which a service is reachable from another service.
- They are not required to enable services to communicate - by default, any service can reach any other service at that service’s name.
- In the following example, `db` is reachable from web at the `hostnames` both `db` and `database`.

```yml
version: "3.9"
services:
  web:
    build: .
    links:
      - "db:database"
  db:
    image: postgres
```

## Specify Custom Networks

- Instead of just using the default app network, you can specify your own networks with the top-level `networks` key.
- This lets you create more complex `topologies` and specify custom network drivers and options.
- Each service can specify what `networks` to connect to with the service-level `networks` key, which is a list of names referencing entries under the top-level `networks` key.

```yml
version: "3.9"

services:
  proxy:
    build: ./proxy
    networks:  # specify which custom network to connect to at service level networks key
      - frontend 
  app:
    build: ./app
    networks:
      - frontend
      - backend
  db:
    image: postgres
    networks:
      - backend

networks:  # define your custom networks at top level networks key
  frontend: 
  backend:
```

- Based on the above custom network definition
	- The `proxy` service is isolated from the `db` service, because they do not share a network in common - only `app` can talk to both.

## More

 - [You can connect to external networks](https://docs.docker.com/compose/networking/#use-a-pre-existing-network)
	 - This is useful if you need to connect two docker-compose networks
 - [docker-networks-explained](https://accesto.com/blog/docker-networks-explained-part-2/)
